---
title: "Gpt3"
date: 2020-08-05T05:06:48Z
publishdate: 2020-08-05T05:06:48Z
---

My thoughts on AI, ML and GPT3


I heard about GPT3 few days ago via the post in Twitter shared by Eric Eliott who is a well-known person in the JavaScript world. 

Let me be honest, I’m a software engineer but I never did anything related to AI or ML, literally nothing, not even a “Hello World” thing. So you read thoughts of a person who is not familiar with the field. This story is more philosophical than technical.

So GPT3 made a lot of boom and hype in the tech world and now everyone tries to jump into that hype train. When using a word “hype” I don’t mean the technology itself but the noise that’s accumulating around it during these days.

Why I decided to write this story. I hear a lot of concern in the dev world, that, ahh.. this is the end of programming, we’ll lose our jobs and so on. And I just wanted to share my thought on this. 

Here’s the question asked a lot: Will programmers lose their jobs because of GPT3 ?’

Short answer: No.
Long answer: Yes, of course.

So why this dilemma took a place into my mind?  Why I answer and yes and no the same question? So, let’s start.

Of course you’ll not lose your jobs since the technology is in its pre pre beta stage and has a lot of time to grow and adapt in the market. We alredy see some cool demos what this tech is capable of and I understand some fear of my coleeges. But at this stage it will not be able to replace programmers both in frontend and backend worlds. It’s the same fear we already saw some years ago when TypeScript released and many predicted the end of JavaScript. The same is true about WebAssembly and so on. We are humans, we always like to predict apocolypse.

So why it’ll replace programmers. It will not happen sometime soon but the world is moving towards that tendence. When talking about programmers, I don’t mean all programmers in the world but some areas will surely be replaced by AI tech. I’m mostly talking about Web Development world and, especially, frontend development. Some years ago Microsoft released bla bla bla….
Let’s think about it. If GPT3 is able to design for you and create a React app and if it’s able to do it with the less cost then why any company or client will pay a much higher price to programmers to do the same thing. Of course, the app or design generated by AI should be tested, implemented, adjusted and so on. That part should be done by programmer because AI will not be able to understand that. But the core part can and will be handled by AI (GPT3 or whatever it will be in the future). So web developers will become something like secretary to just manage the soft and do small fixes and adjustments. This will lead to the cut of the salary because the job complexity will decrease. And this will affect dramatically to HTML/CSS and all that stuff. The designers jobs will also be less paid I think. Want an example? Take a look at the DevOps world, the salary is decreasing there. And you know why this happens? Because lot of things are automated now and less people need to hire some specialist to manage the server and do a work there or if they hiring, then paying much less price. That happens because now a lot of stuff in the server management field is just automated or managed by the team/company who is providing that services.

Why is this happening? It’s simple, market always looks for cheaper solutions to have greater benefit. And, of course, AI will be much cheaper solution in the future than human.

When this will happen? You know, we, programmers, always lack to give estimates so it’s very hard to predict. But technology grows very fast, especially, technology with millions of dollars invested in, so I’ll take the risk and say that this will happen sometime soon. Maybe soon will be 10, or even more years from now but 10 years is nothing, if you think about it in perspective.

What should you do? Invest your time learning stuff that has a lot of creativity and gives you ability to create something new, express yourself and so on. Don’t invest your time into learning something that’s routine and can be easily  replaced with machines. You know, machines are good at routines and humans are good at creativity.

